a desktop computer is made up of several
basic parts and in this video we're
going to show you what these parts are
and what they're used for the computer
case contains the main components of the
computer this is where the actual
processing happens today most cases are
tower cases which means they stand up
vertically sometimes you may see a
horizontal case which is often called a
desktop case in order to view anything
on your computer you'll need to have a
monitor the monitor connects to the
video card inside your computer to
display images and text on the screen
most monitors have LCD or LED displays
which can be made very thin so they
don't use much desk space to save even
more space you can buy an all-in-one
computer which combines the monitor and
the computer case into a single unit to
interact with your computer you'll need
a keyboard and mouse keyboards come in
different shapes and sizes
for example organ Amon and wireless
keyboards the mouse is used to control
the mouse pointer on the screen
it can either be optical which has an
electrical eye on the bottom or
mechanical which uses a rolling ball to
detect movement some people prefer to
use a trackball or touchpad instead of a
mouse these use less desk space since
they don't need to move around when
you're using them
so those are the basic parts of a
desktop computer as you can see each
part plays an important role and you'll
become very familiar with these parts as
you gain more experience with your
computer